# IdleBot

Game concept I am playing with that is an idle game around creating bots to mine for you.
The basic game concept is that you are a sentient AI that has been tasked with returning vital intelligence to your homeworld.  Before you could accomplish your mission, your ship was destroyed.  You have some basic nano with you to help build new bots.  By building up those bots you can build more and more complex components until you can launch from this system towards your home system.
Of course you may end up crashing on another system before you reach your home system and have to repeat this process a few times.


NOTES:

The basic idea is that of an idle game.  You login and give your bots orders.  Things like collect more ore, refine ore, etc.  The rock you are on may not have what you need.  So you may need to go low tech and build a balastic launcher and send bots to a new asteroid / planet nearby to continue collecting elements.
The prestige game mechanic in an idle game usually results in the player resetting their game progress in exchange for a boost in power.  In this game I am thinking that the reset is leaving your current system for another one.  You effectively start over, but maybe you took more elements, raw material, etc with you and start out much faster.
The grind portion of this is that not all systems have the materials you need.  You may have to hit many, many systems before you can build all the components you need to launch back to your home system.

Decay of the bots over time while user is offline is a concept I want to play with to see how well that works for a motivator to return.  Maybe the bots need you to recharge or repair them at certain points.
We can also use the force that originally blew up your ship as a reason for bots being lost, or as a forcing function to require you to move on to another solar system.
Could we have multiple spawn points running at the same time?  Maybe we start in one, and build it up and then move to another asteroid or planet to mine something else and leave the other.  How do we collect everything together into a single spot at the end to launch to next system?

IDLE:

How much idle is too much?
Guild quest is literally ALL idle.  Runescape Idle is very different.  You have to focus on talents and energy and lots of quests to do while waiting.

After playing with Runescape Idle for a couple days they have a nice storyline, and a prestige mechanic that works.  The leveling up of so many skills seems a bit overkill, but it works in their context.
The UI is simply, and I can imagine that all the locations will get to be a bit difficult to manager after a while.  The quest progress is your navigation mechanic.  You go there and see what needs to be done, and then click GO to launch directly to that spot.
Combat is also different.  You lose health and sort of have to pay attention to when to use your powerups to win boss battles.  The idle part is inbetween bosses, as each boss battle can only be triggered by a human.

Quests are a nice concept to drive the user around the map.  But after a while the quest tree gets complex and the user gets lost.  There is an added quests tab that just shows each quest, and the status items in each of the requirements.  After each requirement is a GO button to take you where the quest is needing you next.

There are some interesting slot considerations with the dungeons as well.  At any given time you can only have three active powers.  The powers are sometimes complimentary to each other, sometimes not.  It is up to you to make it work.  You are only leveling the three skilss you are using at that time as active.  Some skills are like boost to melee.  But it only works for ONE melee hit.  If you don't have melee equipped then it does not good (other than training).

Some creatures are all also buffed and you have to debuff them before you can hurt them.  This requires the use of a skills.

There are also global spells like Strike 3x all damage for 30 seconds with a 5 min cooldown.  Or heal for 218 with a 10 min cooldown.
Some monsters are "weak" against melee or ranged, or magic.  You have to read the monster description to find out which.

General combat skills:
melee 
ranged
magic
healing
defense
theif
debuff 
summoning - Pet leveled with health and attack power.  When it does you summon another. Always takes damaged before the player.

Dungeon quests:
Title: Good to be bad
Requirements:
    Defeat 55 skeletons in xxx dungeon  23/55 progress
    defeat 45 zombies in xxx dungeon 13/45
    Complete 7 waves of xxx dungeon
    Use SKILL XX times in XXX dungeon
    Train XX citizens in XXX dungeon
Rewards:
    +Blue / Red power
    +Citizens on powers used
    +XP on powers  (if power tops off and needs to be click by player the remaining XP is wasted)
    +Gear for player
    +


Town Locations:
    Have 9 tiles of skills that are used in this location for quests
    If you don't add any workers to the tiles, they don't power up
    Some have required numbers of times YOU must do them (be clicked on them active)
    


